# CivMC Rules

Source: CivMC official rules (as of 2026-03-20)

## General Rules

We reserve the right to change rules or apply punishments retroactively. Circumventing punishments is not allowed.

### Preface

- Any content posted on platforms hosted by CivMC (including the subreddit, discord server, Minecraft server, etc.) may be subject to moderation.
- Repeating minor offenses may result in a larger ban.
- Stay civil in official channels.

### Conduct & Content Policy

- Harassment of an individual or group is not allowed and can warrant a ban particularly when directed at out of game factors such as racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, etc.
- Graphically NSFW content is not allowed.
- Doxxing is expressly forbidden. Do not post personal or real life information of another player. We recognize there are varying levels of offense and will account for that when applying punishment.
- Assisting players in breaking the rules or avoiding punishments is not allowed.
- If you see rule breaking you are obligated to report it. Failure to do so can result in a ban.
- Strong association with a player breaking the rules can result in a ban by association.
- If you are overall an unpleasant person and only serve to make the experience worse for the majority of others, we reserve the right to remove you from any or all of our platforms for the health of the community, at our discretion.

### Other Rules

- You are not allowed to play CivMC if you are below the age of 13.
- Use of a VPN, VPS, or any other kind of proxy is not allowed.
- Trading ingame goods or services for any out of game good or service is not allowed.
- Distributing malicious code of any kind is not allowed.

## Minecraft Rules

### Cheating

Cheating is forbidden. This includes but isn't limited to:

- Xray or any other kind of tool to retrieve information about blocks that would not be retrievable in a vanilla client.
- Auto clickers, kill aura, reach or any other kind of combat hack which gives a direct advantage in PvP.
- Fast break, interact hacks or any other kind of modification allowing behavior which is impossible to achieve with a vanilla client.
- Intentionally exploiting unintended mechanics to circumvent aspects of the server's balance.
- Abusing bugs of any kind, especially item duplication.

Please note Client side mods are generally allowed as long as they don't enable cheating.

- "Block glitching" of any kind for the purposes of clipping into or accessing otherwise inaccessible areas is prohibited.

### Accounts & Association

- You may only use 1 account. Any additional accounts will be banned.
- If you become associated with another player we may disassociate you based on circumstance. If you give another player access to your account even temporarily you will be permanently associated.

### Botting and Mods

Bots and mods are generally allowed as long they adhere to vanilla Minecraft behavior and work by the following rules:

- Bots and mods must follow all vanilla behavior including but not limited to: Physics, Occlusion, Movement, etc.
- Bots and mods may not be used to discover information that would be otherwise unknown.

#### What bots and mods can do

- Bots and mods can only read server provided chat messages, not ones generated by client side mods.
- Bots and mods are allowed to read any inventory, their selected hot bar slot, their own location, their health, their hunger, their potion effects, their EXP, their boss bar, chat messages, kick reasons, player logins/logouts, the tab list from the server and nothing else.
- Reading environmental data in particular is not allowed. This includes the location of entities, blocks, and information about them.
- Client mods may access the following information of other entities in the world: type, item type, name, X and Z coordinate. Mods may manipulate and visually/auditorily present this information to the user within their client (radar, chat alerts, dings, etc), but it cannot be used for any other bot, script, or external program functionality.
- Client mods may read the top layer only of solid blocks (including y position), and above transparent blocks in the world for mapping purposes.
- Client mods may read the light level of any block, for mapping and display within the client.
- Bots and mods are allowed to read the following attributes of the entity the player is directly a passenger of: its entity type, and its location.

#### Additional Limitations

- Bots and scripts may not be used to directly help a player during combat.
- Mods may manipulate the text color and content of nametags, but not make them more visible at distance or through walls.
- Any mods that manipulate the rendering of entities (capes, cosmetics, etc) may do so so long as they do not significantly alter the size, or alter the hitbox of the rendered entity.

#### Mod Exceptions

- Cosmetic mods, such as texture packs, shader packs, HUD improvements, etc. are allowed, so long as they do not provide any in-game advantage such as: Making blocks transparent, Seeing things you wouldn't otherwise be able to, etc.
- Performance improvement mods, such as those designed to improve FPS, memory use, etc. of the client without adding any functionality are always allowed.
- Mods that download information from the server for later use, such as world downloading, mapping, schematics, replays, LODS, etc. are allowed, as long as they are not used to discover otherwise unknown information. Maps may use "cave mode" in the nether only.
- Mods that display holographic build guides are allowed. Reading world data and placing in non-vanilla ways may only be done to create vanity builds that do not affect gameplay.
